This demonstration showcases
how IBM Apptio Costing Standard can help clients translate
data-driven insights to optimize costs and fund innovation.
Clients can elevate their technology, business management
or TBM practices with a highly customizable platform
that can ingest
and structure data from virtually any source system
and deliver fully consumptive allocations,
allowing their organization to understand the total cost
of ownership and better manage overall tech consumption.
The demo flows across the application review
and reporting capabilities of the product.
This demo showcases to clients
how they can understand the fully burdened total cost
of ownership of their applications, services, and products.
The demo begins with the selection
of an application salesforce.com to examine.
By using IBM Apptio costing standards robust reporting
capabilities, the client can easily visualize the
application spend.
This demo focuses
and drills into the application's addressable spend.
Addressable spend allows companies to actively take control
of their bottom line by optimizing
and rationalizing their spend to better align
with strategic priorities.
Typically, addressable spend are the costs
that can be realized in the next six months to a year.
Individual business units are examined to determine
how they are consuming IT, resources like an application,
and if they are maximizing its use.
The second section examines direct savings, which is a type
of addressable costs.
A direct savings scenario is explored
by turning off a portion of a client's cloud infrastructure.
Turning off cloud infrastructure has a ripple effect when
servers and storage are shut down.
The reporting capabilities
of the Apptio costing standard are used
to examine the effectiveness of this scenario.
This demonstration opens in the service costing tab
of the homepage.
Click on either applications link,
the one in the left navigation,
or the one in the main body of the page.
This opens the applications report section.
This report shows a high level executive summary
of a client's top applications.
From a visualization perspective, clients can see
where they are spending the most money.
Click on the top applications tab.
Roll the mouse over each of the bars in the chart to see
where the most money is spent.
In the demo environment.
It is the salesforce.com application
where the client is spending the most money.
Clients can also see
how their application spend trends over time
in the trend chart.
Mouse over the blue salesforce.com line
to see the spend trend over time.
The reports are interactive and supporting details are
provided for every application.
Click on the details tab Under the top application details
table, the application business owner
and the application investment objective are shown.
The addressable spend is the spending
that can be looked at in the next six months to a year.
Scroll to the right to view the addressable YTD section.
Okay. Clients can drill down
and review the details of an application
in the top application details table.
Click on the salesforce.com application.
The app review detail table
for salesforce.com provides robust information
about this application.
The top view shows summary, year to date, totals
for app run, app dev, and addressable cost.
There are six tabs that clients can use to drill down
to view specific information for the application.
Each tab, examine each tab
in the application details table.
The summary tab shows how the app dev
and app run spend are trending over time.
The addressable costs tab allows a client
to quickly see the percentage of the addressable cost
as cost avoidance, year to date, direct savings, year
to date, or non-addressable cost year to date.
They can also see the addressable trend across direct
savings, cost avoidance,
non-addressable cost or delayed savings.
Mouse over the graphics to view the details in each chart.
The business driver tab allows the client
to look at the trailing 12 month average annual unit
cost for the application.
Clients can also set a target
to see if they're trending towards their goal.
Over time, the user's tab shows information on
application user count, as well
as average annual spend per user,
and average monthly spend per user.
This example shows an upward trend from December fiscal year
2022 to March fiscal year 2023
for the average annual spend per user
and average monthly spend per user.
In the related projects tab, clients can see the projects
that are related to the salesforce.com application along
with their current status and associated costs.
The business unit consumption tab shows which groups are
consuming the application and influencing the business.
The table shows the cost has been shared across three
departments or business units.
It appears that finance's usage has remained steady
but low across the 12 month period, so this may be a case
to communicate to the finance team to migrate
to another application or retire this application.
Thereby reducing unnecessary expenditure
and ensuring financial resources are utilized
where they deliver the most value.
The customer service and sales
and marketing business units are consistent users
of this application and share the cost almost equally.
To close the app review, detail dialogue, click on close
application spend can also be viewed
or grouped by application family scroll
to see the application spend by app family section.
The bar chart gives a summary of the spend
by application Family Mouse over the sales
and marketing bar to see its total spend.
The trend chart provides a rolling 12 month trend view
of each application, family
mouse over any square point on a line
to see the monthly spend for an application.
Family Apptio costing standard A
allows companies to shift
to fully consumptive cost allocations,
providing deeper insight into the fully burdened total cost
of ownership for their apps, services, and products.
In this section, the seller begins
by working in the application review report.
There are other collections
that can help a client focus on the areas that build up
to the costs of their applications.
This section looks at addressable costs,
which are those items that the company can directly
influence and adjust,
and these costs can impact the cost structure
within the next year.
There are different types of addressable costs.
Some are direct savings
because the client can stop using something.
For example, applications, services,
or hardware cloud infrastructure is a good
example of direct savings.
If an application is turned off,
then the client can shut down the associated server in
storage, thus immediately start saving money.
However, if an application is on premises,
typically they are fixed investments
with depreciated capital investments.
Over time, the client won't see direct savings,
but they can see them as cost avoidance.
The supporting infrastructure
for the application could be eventually freed up
for other projects in the future without having
to buy the infrastructure in the applications window.
Click on the addressable costs tab.
The window opens in a summary view
with several high level charts.
Click on the application family impacts tab.
The window displays a six month trend chart.
Year to date impacts by application family chart,
and a details chart drill into the finance application
family because it has a significant amount
of addressable cost.
The finance panel opens with several charts
and tables that allow clients to understand
what is consumptive and what is not.
Review all the applications within the finance application
family with, eliminate application investment objective,
and then examine the potential business impact
of eliminating the application.
In the details table,
locate the application investment objective column
and enter a limb in the search box.
View the search results.
Look at the applications that are at the end
of their application lifecycle with the value of retired,
and understand the potential impact
of eliminating the application.
Locate the pro card application
and click on the impacts icon.
The application cost impacts detail dialogue opens.
Examine for this application, how much
of its costs are addressable.
Mouse over the pie chart to see the amount
of annual cost avoidance.
If this application is eliminated, some
of the addressable costs
for an application might be in the form of vendors.
Click on the vendors tab
and look at the vendors with direct costs
that can show direct savings.
Click on the page counter and move to page two.
Page two shows direct costs,
which are broken down into delayed
savings and direct savings.
Delayed savings are often software contracts that are ending
or do not need to be renewed.
Scroll to the direct savings section.
Direct savings are the consulting agreements.
Some of the addressable costs
of an application might be contracts.
Click on the contracts tab
and the addressable contracts list is shown.
View the project labor associated with the application.
Click on the project labor tab
and the addressable project labor list as shown.
View the non-project labor associated with the application.
Click on the non-project labor tab
and the addressable non-project labor list.
As shown for this application, there are no rows displayed.
Close the application cost impacts detail dialogue
to see how costs build up into a specific application like
salesforce.com.
Drill into the application a bit deeper.
Click on the back button to return
to the addressable costs page.
Under the application family impacts tab.
Click on sales and marketing under the details section
in the details panel.
Click on the salesforce.com application.
Click on the application summary tab
to provide the current context of the application.
The application details section provides metadata about the
application such as
business criticality owners retirement data,
and in-service date.
Click on the OPEX spend tab on this tab.
The financial layer, such as the cost pool is shown.
The cost pool helps clients standardize costs over time
to views into hardware, software, external
and internal labor, and others click on
outside services in year to date.
OPEX by cost pool to see the yearly total
for outside services.
In the details section, clients can see that the
outside services cost sub subpool is comprised
of several services that include consulting cloud services
providers and managed service providers.
Close the app detail cost pools dialogue.
Here's a quick recap of this demo.
This demonstration showcased
how IBM Apptio costing standard can help clients translate
data-driven insights
to optimize their costs and fund innovation.
By using Apptio costing standards rich reporting
capabilities, learners were able
to visualize the applications, spend the demo focused
and drilled into the application's addressable spend.
Individual business units were examined
to understand which departments were consuming the
application and if they were maximizing their
use of the application.
The second section examined direct savings
with a direct savings scenario
that explored shutting down part
of the cloud infrastructure.
The reporting capabilities
of IBM Apptio costing standard were used
to examine the effectiveness of the scenario.
This demonstration showcases
how IBM Apptio planning can help clients understand their
current spend, identify areas to optimize run scenarios
to visualize the impact of changes to the organization
and manage new forecasts.
This understanding enables clients
to make informed decisions that align
with business objectives,
thereby driving better tech financial outcomes.
The demonstration highlights
and utilizes the following common data sources
that are loaded into the system, a budget
and spending to date.
In this demo, the seller demonstrates spend analysis
and optimization opportunities across three common use
cases, labor vendors and projects.
The seller demonstrates optimization opportunities
that range from reducing resources
to reducing monthly resource spending.
The demonstration flows across the main capabilities
of the product to showcase to clients how to understand
where their current spend is, identify areas
where they can optimize and run scenarios.
To visualize the impact of changes to the organization,
the demonstration has three major sections.
Compare a baseline budget to actuals.
In this section, the seller loads a current fiscal year
budget and compares it to the current fiscal year actuals.
This comparison helps clients identify variance drivers
and unexpected trends.
The second section work with a forecast plan.
In this section, the seller works
with a pre-configured forecast plan
and compares it to the current fiscal year budget.
This helps clients understand
how changes in the forecast can affect their plans
and enable proactive adjustments.
In the third section, evaluate the impact of adjustments
to the forecast plan.
The seller creates a scenario
and evaluates its impact on the
pre-configured forecast plan.
This scenario is a use case where evaluations are made
to adjust the labor vendor and project data.
By simulating different scenarios,
clients can better understand the potential
impact of each scenario.
The dashboard is the main navigation page
that contains high level charts
and graphs that summarize the different aspects
of the default budget.
That was automatically loaded with the demo environment.
Load a different budget.
The fiscal year 2023 budget baseline
by selecting it from the list.
Select the actuals for comparison.
Click the compare to dropdown and select fiscal year 2023.
April Forecast, WIP from the list.
Start by selecting the current year's baseline budget
and then selecting a set of actuals for comparison.
These data sources for the budget
and actuals were previously loaded into the demo system.
Scroll down to the spend variances table.
The actuals for the budget are grouped into
large buckets or groups.
The budgets are color coded.
Orange represents those groups running over budget.
Those departments in gray are running under budget,
click infra and ops.
The budget information for the infra
and ops group is displayed,
which is further broken down into cost centers.
Return to viewing all the departments click on all.
When you pivot back to the homepage,
you can see the spend trend chart of the actuals
on the spend trend chart.
The red line represents actuals.
While the orange line represents targets,
the blue columns represent the plan total for each month.
Let's take a look at the actuals.
For a month, click the red dot Above March fiscal year 24,
the actuals for the month are displayed.
Note the cost center column and total amount.
This helps stakeholders track trends over time,
pinpointing variances from the budget
and allowing stakeholders to adjust.
Based on recent spending trends in the actuals chart,
the data is transformed and rolled up for easy consumption.
By drilling down into the spend variances chart,
stakeholders can observe the distribution
of spend across different cost centers
and evaluate the total expenditures for the month.
This allows stakeholders to quickly identify areas
of overspending, enabling timely adjustments.
Close the all actuals window switch to the summer view
by expanding the menu and clicking summary.
Change the grouping of data to show addressable
and non-addressable costs.
Click the group, buy dropdown, expand account,
and then select addressable
or non-addressable from the list
in the spend breakdown chart,
click on the addressable column.
The spend trend chart is updated to show addressable costs
by month with the forecast in orange
and actuals in red charted, clients may want to pivot
and see addressable and non-addressable data.
For vendors in the spend trend chart, click the dropdown,
expand vendor and select name from the list.
The spend trend chart displays all the vendors
that are considered addressable.
Drill down to see the details
for point B consultant shown in blue
for January fiscal year 23,
locate the Jan fiscal year 23 column.
Click on the blue block on the top of the bar.
A chart with the addressable costs
for point B consulting is displayed.
Close the chart. This section gives a basic
understanding of IBM Apptio planning, providing clients
with a view of their spending.
In many businesses, viewing financial data
by department is common and familiar to most people.
However, it is best practice to view costs as addressable
and non addressable.
The terms refer to spending
that clients can control in the short term
addressable and spending.
That may take longer to analyze
and see the impact of decisions.
Non-ad addressable Clients can also pivot
and utilize the vendor name view, which allows them
to easily see vendors that are deemed addressable.
Addressable vendors are those that can be examined
and used to drive optimizations
or cut costs for the company.
The vendor point B consulting is revisited
later in this demonstration.
In this section, the seller works
with a pre-configured forecast plan
and compares it to the plan from the previous section.
A forecast plan is useful
because clients can create a view based on several different
use cases such as labor vendors or projects.
This section examines those three use cases.
Begin by examining a pre-configured plan.
Expand the side menu, expand plan, then select plans.
In the plans table. Click on fiscal year 2023.
April forecast, WIP.
The plan opens in the expenses window. In the summary tab.
A pre-configured forecast plan is included in this demo.
Users could configure a forecast plan,
but this one is used for convenience.
Upon selecting the forecast plan, you will see opex
and CapEx summarized at the top of the screen.
The total for each is in the large font.
The target is in a smaller font.
Clients can think of target as their goal
for reducing spend.
The demo environment is read only the user permission.
Settings in the demo environment do not allow for users
to adjust the labor and vendor cost.
However, in the client environment,
sellers could adjust the labor costs by identifying areas
to trim costs, reduce headcount for specific roles
or locations, and work toward reducing external labor costs
to meet the target for this forecast plan.
In this section, sellers can help clients review the impact
of the adjustments made to labor vendors
and projects made on overall headcount.
In financials, IBM Apptio planning allows clients
to see the impact of their decisions
and forecasts in real time.
Clients can run forecasts with different use cases
to simulate driving out costs from the business.
In the next five subsections,
examine the results on headcount, overall financials,
vendor financials, project financials, and resource types.
Switch to the summary view. Click on the menu select plan.
Then click on summary from the option list.
Start by looking at the headcount grouped by employee type.
Recall that employees are either internal or external.
Click on the headcount tab. Click on the group.
Buy dropdown, select employee type from the list.
This provides a clear understanding of resource allocation
between internal and external employees.
Compare the headcount
to the budget targets from earlier in the demonstration.
Click on the compare to dropdown.
Select fiscal year 2023 April, budget forecast.
New from the list.
Scroll down to the headcount waterfall chart.
There may not be a big change,
but notice the trend of the number of internal
and external resources for the year.
Understanding these trends helps in forecasting future
staffing needs, and budgeting accurately.
Mouse over the internal and external columns in the chart.
To view comparative budget numbers, pivot the data
to view the internal and external labor cost pools.
Switch to a financial view and group by cost pool.
In the summary chart, click the financial tab.
Click the group by dropdown
and select cost pool from the list.
Click on set filters and select cost pool from the list.
Check external labor and internal labor,
and click the update filters button.
View the impact of the adjustments made to labor vendors
and projects on overall financials.
This can be viewed on the spend trend chart
that the changes made earlier have had an impact on the
actuals for the first three months of the year.
The red line. Seeing these impacts enables quick
identification of cost saving opportunities
and budget optimization.
Scroll down to the spend waterfall chart.
Notice the external labor comparison for the baseline
and final budgets
that indicates external costs affecting the bottom line have
been driven out of the company.
Switch to a vendor centric view.
Remove the cost pool filter
to accurately display the vendor financial data.
Click edit filters in the filters dialogue.
Click the remove all filters button.
Click the update filters button.
Click the group by dropdown. Expand vendor.
Then select name from the list.
The spend breakdown chart shows the amount
of spend for each vendor.
The spend trend chart shows the rolled up totals
for all vendors by month.
Along with an actuals line
examine if any adjustments were made to a work item assigned
to point B consulting in the spend breakdown chart,
click the point B consulting box
The detail level of the spend.
Trend chart changes to show details for the vendor.
Notice the actuals line, which reflects the changes made
to the money committed to this vendor.
Examine the impact on project financials based on whether a
project is categorized as run, grow, or transform.
Switch to a product-centric view.
Click the group by dropdown. Expand project from the list.
Then select invest type.
There are three invest types, run, grow, and transform.
Scroll down to the spend. Waterfall chart.
Users can examine the original budget baseline.
The reductions shown is run
and the final budget numbers
that reflect the reductions in run costs.
Another common perspective is to look at the impact
of resource type to see the non-labor
and labor breakout across the entire budget.
Switch to a product centric view.
Click the group by dropdown.
Click on response type from the list.
There are two resource types, non-labor and labor.
Scroll down to the spend waterfall chart.
Users can see the original budget baseline, the amount
of non-labor removed,
and the final budget numbers
that reflect the change in non-labor costs.
Here's a quick recap of this demo.
You were able to see how IBM Apptio planning helps clients
consume, transform, and classify data into usable formats.
Clients can begin to understand their current spend,
identify areas where they can optimize
and run scenarios to see the impact
of those changes on the organization.
The demonstration started by reviewing a baseline budget
and comparing it to a set of actuals.
Next, a forecast plan was selected
and compared to the current fiscal year budget.
These two sections were written to familiarize the seller
with the dashboard
and other introductory parts of the user interface.
Next, the scenario was created
and evaluated for its impact on the forecast plan.
The scenario was comprised of adjustments made
to labor vendor and project data.
Finally, the demonstration illustrated how
to examine the impact of the adjustments at deeper levels,
headcount, overall financials, vendor financials,
project financials, and resource types.
Throughout this demo,
sellers saw the different ways IBM Apptio brings value
to this process of data transformation,
giving clients the ability
to start focusing on more value centric activity.
Users in various roles provide inputs,
but with IBM Apptio Planning
plan versioning helps control those inputs
and allows data to roll up quickly.
This process enables clients
to make faster business decisions across their teams.
In conclusion, IBM Apptio planning allows clients
to create scenarios very quickly.
These scenarios help clients understand the impact on their
business and the risks in moving forward on any of those
to help get clients moving quickly.
IBM Apptio configures all this for them
so there's minimal impact on their teams.
Apptio can get clients up
and running in two weeks,
putting those rich analytics at their fingertips
and allowing them to have transparency
to drive better business conversations and decisions.